---
entity_id: "gene.b3962"
entity_type: "gene"
name: "sthA"
source_database: "NCBI RefSeq"
source_id: "gene-b3962"
default_state: "expressed"
allowed_states: "expressed|repressed|knocked_out|mutated|overexpressed"
subcellular_location: "cytosol"
enriched_summary_quality: "informative"
tags:
  - entity/gene
  - source/NCBI_RefSeq
aliases:
  - "b3962"
  - "sthA"
---

# sthA

`gene.b3962`

## Static

- Type: `gene`
- Source: `NCBI RefSeq:gene-b3962`
- Default state: `expressed`
- Allowed states: `expressed|repressed|knocked_out|mutated|overexpressed`
- Location: cytosol

## Enriched Summary

sthA (gene.b3962) is a gene entity. It encodes sthA (protein.P27306). Encoded protein function: FUNCTION: Conversion of NADPH, generated by peripheral catabolic pathways, to NADH, which can enter the respiratory chain for energy generation. {ECO:0000269|PubMed:9922271}. EcoCyc product frame: UDHA-MONOMER. EcoCyc synonyms: sth, udhA. Genomic coordinates: 4159390-4160790. EcoCyc protein note: E. coli contains both a soluble and a membrane-bound pyridine nucleotide transhydrogenase. The soluble pyridine nucleotide transhydrogenase is the sthA gene product; its primary physiological role appears to be the reoxidation of NADPH . The membrane-bound proton-translocating transhydrogenase is the pntAB gene product; PYRNUTRANSHYDROGEN-CPLX PntAB is a major source of NADPH . SthA contains noncovalently bound FAD and is present in a form consisting of seven or eight monomers . While the in vivo function of the enzyme is to oxidize excess of NADPH forming NADH, the enzyme is able to catalyze the reaction in the opposite direction, and most metabolic engineering reports employing the enzyme benefit from that activity . The enzyme contains a CXXXXT motif that is well conserved in pyridine nucleotide transhydrogenase and distinguishes these enzymes from the related family of flavoprotein disulfide reductases, in which a CXXXXC motif is conserved...

## Biological Role

Repressed by spf (gene.b3864), arcA (protein.P0A9Q1), lrp (protein.P0ACJ0).

## Enriched Pathways

- `eco00760` Nicotinate and nicotinamide metabolism (KEGG)
- `eco01100` Metabolic pathways (KEGG)

## Annotation

NCBI RefSeq gene feature

## Outgoing Edges (1)

- `encodes` --> [[protein.P27306|protein.P27306]] `UniProt|EcoCyc` `database` - EcoCyc gene PRODUCT

## Incoming Edges (3)

- `represses` <-- [[gene.b3864|gene.b3864]] `RegulonDB` `S` - regulator=Spf; target=sthA; function=-
- `represses` <-- [[protein.P0A9Q1|protein.P0A9Q1]] `RegulonDB|EcoCyc` `S` - regulator=ArcA; target=sthA; function=- | EcoCyc regulation TYPES=Transcription-Factor-Binding
- `represses` <-- [[protein.P0ACJ0|protein.P0ACJ0]] `EcoCyc` `database` - EcoCyc regulation TYPES=Transcription-Factor-Binding

## External IDs

- `Dbxref:ASAP:ABE-0012975,ECOCYC:EG11428,GeneID:948461`
- `gbkey:Gene`
- `gene_biotype:protein_coding`

## Notes

NC_000913.3:4159390-4160790:-; feature_type=gene
