---
entity_id: "gene.b1679"
entity_type: "gene"
name: "sufE"
source_database: "NCBI RefSeq"
source_id: "gene-b1679"
default_state: "expressed"
allowed_states: "expressed|repressed|knocked_out|mutated|overexpressed"
subcellular_location: "cytosol"
enriched_summary_quality: "informative"
tags:
  - entity/gene
  - source/NCBI_RefSeq
aliases:
  - "b1679"
  - "sufE"
---

# sufE

`gene.b1679`

## Static

- Type: `gene`
- Source: `NCBI RefSeq:gene-b1679`
- Default state: `expressed`
- Allowed states: `expressed|repressed|knocked_out|mutated|overexpressed`
- Location: cytosol

## Enriched Summary

sufE (gene.b1679) is a gene entity. It encodes sufE (protein.P76194). Encoded protein function: FUNCTION: Participates in cysteine desulfuration mediated by SufS. Cysteine desulfuration mobilizes sulfur from L-cysteine to yield L-alanine and constitutes an essential step in sulfur metabolism for biosynthesis of a variety of sulfur-containing biomolecules. Functions as a sulfur acceptor for SufS, by mediating the direct transfer of the sulfur atom from the S-sulfanylcysteine of SufS, an intermediate product of cysteine desulfuration process. Together with the SufBCD complex, it thereby enhances up to 50-fold, the cysteine desulfurase activity of SufS. Component of the suf operon, which is activated and required under specific conditions such as oxidative stress and iron limitation. Does not affect the selenocysteine lyase activity of SufS. {ECO:0000269|PubMed:12876288, ECO:0000269|PubMed:12941942, ECO:0000269|PubMed:14644425}. EcoCyc product frame: G6905-MONOMER. EcoCyc synonyms: ynhA. Genomic coordinates: 1758874-1759290. EcoCyc protein note: SufE is part of the Suf iron-sulfur cluster assembly system. SufE acts as a sulfur acceptor for the cysteine persulfide generated by the CPLX0-246 SufS cysteine desulfurase and transfers the sulfur atoms to the Cys254 residue of G6909-MONOMER SufB...

## Biological Role

Repressed by fur (protein.P0A9A9). Activated by rpoD (protein.P00579), oxyR (protein.P0ACQ4), iscR (protein.P0AGK8).

## Annotation

NCBI RefSeq gene feature

## Outgoing Edges (1)

- `encodes` --> [[protein.P76194|protein.P76194]] `UniProt|EcoCyc` `database` - EcoCyc gene PRODUCT

## Incoming Edges (4)

- `activates` <-- [[protein.P00579|protein.P00579]] `RegulonDB` `S` - sigma=sigma70; target=sufE; function=+
- `activates` <-- [[protein.P0ACQ4|protein.P0ACQ4]] `RegulonDB` `C` - regulator=OxyR; target=sufE; function=+
- `activates` <-- [[protein.P0AGK8|protein.P0AGK8]] `RegulonDB` `S` - regulator=IscR; target=sufE; function=+
- `represses` <-- [[protein.P0A9A9|protein.P0A9A9]] `RegulonDB` `C` - regulator=Fur; target=sufE; function=-

## External IDs

- `Dbxref:ASAP:ABE-0005608,ECOCYC:G6905,GeneID:946173`
- `gbkey:Gene`
- `gene_biotype:protein_coding`

## Notes

NC_000913.3:1758874-1759290:-; feature_type=gene
