---
entity_id: "gene.b1285"
entity_type: "gene"
name: "pdeR"
source_database: "NCBI RefSeq"
source_id: "gene-b1285"
default_state: "expressed"
allowed_states: "expressed|repressed|knocked_out|mutated|overexpressed"
subcellular_location: "cytosol"
enriched_summary_quality: "informative"
tags:
  - entity/gene
  - source/NCBI_RefSeq
aliases:
  - "b1285"
  - "pdeR"
---

# pdeR

`gene.b1285`

## Static

- Type: `gene`
- Source: `NCBI RefSeq:gene-b1285`
- Default state: `expressed`
- Allowed states: `expressed|repressed|knocked_out|mutated|overexpressed`
- Location: cytosol

## Enriched Summary

pdeR (gene.b1285) is a gene entity. It encodes pdeR (protein.P77334). Encoded protein function: FUNCTION: Part of a signaling cascade that regulates curli biosynthesis. The cascade is composed of two cyclic-di-GMP (c-di-GMP) control modules, in which c-di-GMP controlled by the DgcE/PdeH pair (module I) regulates the activity of the DgcM/PdeR pair (module II), which in turn regulates activity of the transcription factor MlrA and expression of the master biofilm regulator csgD (PubMed:23708798). PdeR acts as a trigger enzyme that connects modules I and II. It inhibits DgcM and MlrA by direct interaction. Inhibition is relieved when PdeR binds and degrades c-di-GMP generated by module I (PubMed:17010156, PubMed:23708798). {ECO:0000269|PubMed:17010156, ECO:0000269|PubMed:23708798}. EcoCyc product frame: G6639-MONOMER. EcoCyc synonyms: yciR, gmr. Genomic coordinates: 1344757-1346742. EcoCyc protein note: Curli amyloid fibers are thin, coiled surface structures composed of a polymer of a single type of subunit, EG11489-MONOMER, encoded by the EG11489 gene . Curli are the key component of the extracellular matrix produced during biofilm formation by Escherichia coli and related Enterobacteriaceae and are involved in inert surface colonization, biofilm formation, and bacterial binding to a variety of extracellular matrix and serum proteins...

## Biological Role

Repressed by fliZ (protein.P52627). Activated by rpoS (protein.P13445).

## Enriched Pathways

- `eco02024` Quorum sensing (KEGG)
- `eco02026` Biofilm formation - Escherichia coli (KEGG)

## Annotation

NCBI RefSeq gene feature

## Outgoing Edges (1)

- `encodes` --> [[protein.P77334|protein.P77334]] `UniProt|EcoCyc` `database` - EcoCyc gene PRODUCT

## Incoming Edges (2)

- `activates` <-- [[protein.P13445|protein.P13445]] `RegulonDB` `S` - sigma=sigma38; target=pdeR; function=+
- `represses` <-- [[protein.P52627|protein.P52627]] `RegulonDB` `C` - regulator=FliZ; target=pdeR; function=-

## External IDs

- `Dbxref:ASAP:ABE-0004317,ECOCYC:G6639,GeneID:945868`
- `gbkey:Gene`
- `gene_biotype:protein_coding`

## Notes

NC_000913.3:1344757-1346742:-; feature_type=gene
