---
entity_id: "gene.b4346"
entity_type: "gene"
name: "mcrB"
source_database: "NCBI RefSeq"
source_id: "gene-b4346"
default_state: "expressed"
allowed_states: "expressed|repressed|knocked_out|mutated|overexpressed"
subcellular_location: "cytosol"
enriched_summary_quality: "informative"
tags:
  - entity/gene
  - source/NCBI_RefSeq
aliases:
  - "b4346"
  - "mcrB"
---

# mcrB

`gene.b4346`

## Static

- Type: `gene`
- Source: `NCBI RefSeq:gene-b4346`
- Default state: `expressed`
- Allowed states: `expressed|repressed|knocked_out|mutated|overexpressed`
- Location: cytosol

## Enriched Summary

mcrB (gene.b4346) is a gene entity. It encodes mcrB (protein.P15005). Encoded protein function: FUNCTION: Recognizes N4- and C5-methylcytosine (and 5-hydroxy-methylcytosines) produced by a broad range of DNA methylases and appears to act against 5-methylcytosine preceded by a purine residue. Binds to DNA containing methylated cytosines; also binds to GTP. Isoform 33 kDa is less active than isoform 51 kDa and may play a role in regulating the activity of isoform 51 kDa by competing with it in DNA and protein binding abilities. {ECO:0000305|PubMed:2649480}. EcoCyc product frame: MONOMER0-4524. EcoCyc synonyms: rglB. Genomic coordinates: 4577958-4579337. EcoCyc protein note: The McrBS gene product of mcrB is generated by alternative translation initiation, resulting in a shorter peptide that lacks the 161 N-terminal amino acids of McrB that are required for DNA binding . McrBS may be required for stabilization of the McrBC restriction complex or as an inhibitor of DNA cleavage due to sequestration of McrC . EcoCyc protein note: The McrB protein together with McrC forms the McrBC restriction system . The McrB subunit mediates binding of the enzyme to hemi- and fully-methylated 5'PuC sites . Sequence determinants for DNA binding have been studied . McrB also binds and hydrolyzes the essential cofactor GTP...

## Biological Role

Repressed by nac (protein.Q47005).

## Annotation

NCBI RefSeq gene feature

## Outgoing Edges (1)

- `encodes` --> [[protein.P15005|protein.P15005]] `UniProt|EcoCyc` `database` - EcoCyc gene PRODUCT

## Incoming Edges (1)

- `represses` <-- [[protein.Q47005|protein.Q47005]] `RegulonDB|EcoCyc` `S` - regulator=Nac; target=mcrB; function=- | EcoCyc regulation TYPES=Transcription-Factor-Binding

## External IDs

- `Dbxref:ASAP:ABE-0014250,ECOCYC:EG10574,GeneID:949122`
- `gbkey:Gene`
- `gene_biotype:protein_coding`

## Notes

NC_000913.3:4577958-4579337:-; feature_type=gene
