---
entity_id: "gene.b2889"
entity_type: "gene"
name: "idi"
source_database: "NCBI RefSeq"
source_id: "gene-b2889"
default_state: "expressed"
allowed_states: "expressed|repressed|knocked_out|mutated|overexpressed"
subcellular_location: "cytosol"
enriched_summary_quality: "informative"
tags:
  - entity/gene
  - source/NCBI_RefSeq
aliases:
  - "b2889"
  - "idi"
---

# idi

`gene.b2889`

## Static

- Type: `gene`
- Source: `NCBI RefSeq:gene-b2889`
- Default state: `expressed`
- Allowed states: `expressed|repressed|knocked_out|mutated|overexpressed`
- Location: cytosol

## Enriched Summary

idi (gene.b2889) is a gene entity. It encodes idi (protein.Q46822). Encoded protein function: FUNCTION: Catalyzes the 1,3-allylic rearrangement of the homoallylic substrate isopentenyl (IPP) to its highly electrophilic allylic isomer, dimethylallyl diphosphate (DMAPP). {ECO:0000269|PubMed:10099534, ECO:0000269|PubMed:10419945, ECO:0000269|PubMed:9603997}. EcoCyc product frame: IPPISOM-MONOMER. EcoCyc synonyms: ygfV. Genomic coordinates: 3033065-3033613. EcoCyc protein note: Isopentenyl diphosphate (IPP) isomerase (Idi) catalyzes the reversible isomerization of isopentenyl diphosphate (IPP) to dimethylallyl diphosphate (DMAPP), a key step in the biosynthesis of isoprenoids. Idi catalyzes the reversible isomerization of IPP to DMAPP . The initial 5-6:1 ratio of IPP to DMAPP generated by CPLX0-7564 is adjusted to a final ratio of 3:7 by Idi . The enzyme requires two divalent cations for activity; a Zn2+ ion is located in a hexacoordinate His3Glu2 pocket and is part of the catalytic machinery, while the enzyme-substrate complex contains an additional Mg2+ ion that facilitates substrate binding. A wide variety of divalent metal ions can provide these functions . Crystal structures of free and metal-bound isopentenyl diphosphate isomerase enabled identification of the active site...

## Enriched Pathways

- `eco00900` Terpenoid backbone biosynthesis (KEGG)
- `eco01100` Metabolic pathways (KEGG)
- `eco01110` Biosynthesis of secondary metabolites (KEGG)

## Annotation

NCBI RefSeq gene feature

## Outgoing Edges (1)

- `encodes` --> [[protein.Q46822|protein.Q46822]] `UniProt|EcoCyc` `database` - EcoCyc gene PRODUCT

## Incoming Edges (0)

_None._

## External IDs

- `Dbxref:ASAP:ABE-0009484,ECOCYC:G7508,GeneID:949020`
- `gbkey:Gene`
- `gene_biotype:protein_coding`

## Notes

NC_000913.3:3033065-3033613:+; feature_type=gene
