---
entity_id: "gene.b0757"
entity_type: "gene"
name: "galK"
source_database: "NCBI RefSeq"
source_id: "gene-b0757"
default_state: "expressed"
allowed_states: "expressed|repressed|knocked_out|mutated|overexpressed"
subcellular_location: "cytosol"
enriched_summary_quality: "informative"
tags:
  - entity/gene
  - source/NCBI_RefSeq
aliases:
  - "b0757"
  - "galK"
---

# galK

`gene.b0757`

## Static

- Type: `gene`
- Source: `NCBI RefSeq:gene-b0757`
- Default state: `expressed`
- Allowed states: `expressed|repressed|knocked_out|mutated|overexpressed`
- Location: cytosol

## Enriched Summary

galK (gene.b0757) is a gene entity. It encodes galK (protein.P0A6T3). Encoded protein function: FUNCTION: Catalyzes the transfer of the gamma-phosphate of ATP to D-galactose to form alpha-D-galactose-1-phosphate (Gal-1-P). To a lesser extent, is also able to phosphorylate 2-deoxy-D-galactose and D-galactosamine. Is not able to use D-galacturonic acid, D-talose, L-altrose, and L-glucose as substrates. {ECO:0000255|HAMAP-Rule:MF_00246, ECO:0000269|PubMed:12816414, ECO:0000269|PubMed:14612558, ECO:0000269|PubMed:200486}. EcoCyc product frame: GALACTOKIN-MONOMER. EcoCyc synonyms: galA. Genomic coordinates: 788831-789979. EcoCyc protein note: Galactokinase (GalK) catalyzes the first step in the Leloir pathway of galactose metabolism . The substrate specificity of GalK is high; however, a single amino acid change, Y371H, leads to substantial kinase activity with a variety of substrates . The 3-D structure of GalK has been modeled . Transcriptional and post-transcriptional regulation of the gal locus is complex. A galK-encoding mRNA species, named mK2, appears to be generated by RNase P cleavage of a longer transcript . Translation of GalK is independently downregulated by SPF-RNA , likely due to degradation of the galK-specific mK2 mRNA that is generated by RNase P cleavage...

## Biological Role

Repressed by galR (protein.P03024), hns (protein.P0ACF8), crp (protein.P0ACJ8), galS (protein.P25748). Activated by rpoD (protein.P00579), galR (protein.P03024), crp (protein.P0ACJ8), rpoS (protein.P13445), galS (protein.P25748).

## Enriched Pathways

- `eco00052` Galactose metabolism (KEGG)
- `eco00520` Amino sugar and nucleotide sugar metabolism (KEGG)
- `eco01100` Metabolic pathways (KEGG)
- `eco01250` Biosynthesis of nucleotide sugars (KEGG)

## Annotation

NCBI RefSeq gene feature

## Outgoing Edges (1)

- `encodes` --> [[protein.P0A6T3|protein.P0A6T3]] `UniProt|EcoCyc` `database` - EcoCyc gene PRODUCT

## Incoming Edges (9)

- `activates` <-- [[protein.P00579|protein.P00579]] `RegulonDB` `C` - sigma=sigma70; target=galK; function=+
- `activates` <-- [[protein.P03024|protein.P03024]] `RegulonDB` `C` - regulator=GalR; target=galK; function=-+
- `activates` <-- [[protein.P0ACJ8|protein.P0ACJ8]] `RegulonDB` `S` - regulator=CRP; target=galK; function=-+
- `activates` <-- [[protein.P13445|protein.P13445]] `RegulonDB` `C` - sigma=sigma38; target=galK; function=+
- `activates` <-- [[protein.P25748|protein.P25748]] `RegulonDB` `S` - regulator=GalS; target=galK; function=-+
- `represses` <-- [[protein.P03024|protein.P03024]] `RegulonDB` `C` - regulator=GalR; target=galK; function=-+
- `represses` <-- [[protein.P0ACF8|protein.P0ACF8]] `RegulonDB` `S` - regulator=H-NS; target=galK; function=-
- `represses` <-- [[protein.P0ACJ8|protein.P0ACJ8]] `RegulonDB` `S` - regulator=CRP; target=galK; function=-+
- `represses` <-- [[protein.P25748|protein.P25748]] `RegulonDB` `S` - regulator=GalS; target=galK; function=-+

## External IDs

- `Dbxref:ASAP:ABE-0002568,ECOCYC:EG10363,GeneID:945358`
- `gbkey:Gene`
- `gene_biotype:protein_coding`

## Notes

NC_000913.3:788831-789979:-; feature_type=gene
