---
entity_id: "gene.b1812"
entity_type: "gene"
name: "pabB"
source_database: "NCBI RefSeq"
source_id: "gene-b1812"
default_state: "expressed"
allowed_states: "expressed|repressed|knocked_out|mutated|overexpressed"
subcellular_location: "cytosol"
enriched_summary_quality: "informative"
tags:
  - entity/gene
  - source/NCBI_RefSeq
aliases:
  - "b1812"
  - "pabB"
---

# pabB

`gene.b1812`

## Static

- Type: `gene`
- Source: `NCBI RefSeq:gene-b1812`
- Default state: `expressed`
- Allowed states: `expressed|repressed|knocked_out|mutated|overexpressed`
- Location: cytosol

## Enriched Summary

pabB (gene.b1812) is a gene entity. It encodes pabB (protein.P05041). Encoded protein function: FUNCTION: Part of a heterodimeric complex that catalyzes the two-step biosynthesis of 4-amino-4-deoxychorismate (ADC), a precursor of p-aminobenzoate (PABA) and tetrahydrofolate. In the first step, a glutamine amidotransferase (PabA) generates ammonia as a substrate that, along with chorismate, is used in the second step, catalyzed by aminodeoxychorismate synthase (PabB) to produce ADC. PabB, in the absence of PabA, can catalyze the formation of ADC in the presence of exogenous ammonia. {ECO:0000269|PubMed:16605270, ECO:0000269|PubMed:2251281, ECO:0000269|PubMed:4914080}. EcoCyc product frame: PABASYN-COMPI-MONOMER. Genomic coordinates: 1894805-1896166. EcoCyc protein note: PabB (component 1) catalyzes the formation of 4-amino-4-deoxychorismate (ADC) from chorismate and ammonia generated by PabA within the amiodeoxychorismate synthase complex . Kinetic studies support an ordered bi-bi catalytic mechanism with chorismate binding first . In the absence of PabA, PabB can utilize ammonia (at a reduced rate) to aminate chorismate and produce 4-amino-4-deoxychorismate . The reaction catalyzed by PabB in vitro in the presence of ammonia is reversible in the absence of PabC . Crystal structures of PabB have been determined at 2.0 Å resolution; a potential active site has been identified...

## Biological Role

Repressed by lrp (protein.P0ACJ0).

## Enriched Pathways

- `eco00790` Folate biosynthesis (KEGG)
- `eco01240` Biosynthesis of cofactors (KEGG)

## Annotation

NCBI RefSeq gene feature

## Outgoing Edges (1)

- `encodes` --> [[protein.P05041|protein.P05041]] `UniProt|EcoCyc` `database` - EcoCyc gene PRODUCT

## Incoming Edges (1)

- `represses` <-- [[protein.P0ACJ0|protein.P0ACJ0]] `EcoCyc` `database` - EcoCyc regulation TYPES=Transcription-Factor-Binding

## External IDs

- `Dbxref:ASAP:ABE-0006031,ECOCYC:EG10683,GeneID:946337`
- `gbkey:Gene`
- `gene_biotype:protein_coding`

## Notes

NC_000913.3:1894805-1896166:+; feature_type=gene
