---
entity_id: "gene.b1341"
entity_type: "gene"
name: "dgcM"
source_database: "NCBI RefSeq"
source_id: "gene-b1341"
default_state: "expressed"
allowed_states: "expressed|repressed|knocked_out|mutated|overexpressed"
subcellular_location: "cytosol"
enriched_summary_quality: "informative"
tags:
  - entity/gene
  - source/NCBI_RefSeq
aliases:
  - "b1341"
  - "dgcM"
---

# dgcM

`gene.b1341`

## Static

- Type: `gene`
- Source: `NCBI RefSeq:gene-b1341`
- Default state: `expressed`
- Allowed states: `expressed|repressed|knocked_out|mutated|overexpressed`
- Location: cytosol

## Enriched Summary

dgcM (gene.b1341) is a gene entity. It encodes dgcM (protein.P77302). Encoded protein function: FUNCTION: Part of a signaling cascade that regulates curli biosynthesis. The cascade is composed of two cyclic-di-GMP (c-di-GMP) control modules, in which c-di-GMP controlled by the DgcE/PdeH pair (module I) regulates the activity of the DgcM/PdeR pair (module II), which in turn regulates activity of the transcription factor MlrA and expression of the master biofilm regulator csgD (PubMed:23708798). DgcM stimulates activity of MlrA by direct interaction, leading to the transcription of csgD. It also catalyzes the synthesis of c-di-GMP via the condensation of 2 GTP molecules, which contributes to the c-di-GMP pool generated by module I in a positive feedback loop. Production of c-di-GMP contributes to but is not essential for MlrA activation (PubMed:17010156, PubMed:23708798). {ECO:0000269|PubMed:17010156, ECO:0000269|PubMed:23708798}. EcoCyc product frame: G6673-MONOMER. EcoCyc synonyms: ydaM. Genomic coordinates: 1406563-1407795.

## Biological Role

Repressed by rprA (gene.b4431), omrA (gene.b4444), omrB (gene.b4445), lrp (protein.P0ACJ0). Activated by lrp (protein.P0ACJ0).

## Enriched Pathways

- `eco02026` Biofilm formation - Escherichia coli (KEGG)

## Annotation

NCBI RefSeq gene feature

## Outgoing Edges (1)

- `encodes` --> [[protein.P77302|protein.P77302]] `UniProt|EcoCyc` `database` - EcoCyc gene PRODUCT

## Incoming Edges (5)

- `activates` <-- [[protein.P0ACJ0|protein.P0ACJ0]] `EcoCyc` `database` - EcoCyc regulation TYPES=Transcription-Factor-Binding
- `represses` <-- [[gene.b4431|gene.b4431]] `RegulonDB` `S` - regulator=RprA; target=dgcM; function=-
- `represses` <-- [[gene.b4444|gene.b4444]] `RegulonDB` `S` - regulator=OmrA; target=dgcM; function=-
- `represses` <-- [[gene.b4445|gene.b4445]] `RegulonDB` `S` - regulator=OmrB; target=dgcM; function=-
- `represses` <-- [[protein.P0ACJ0|protein.P0ACJ0]] `EcoCyc` `database` - EcoCyc regulation TYPES=Transcription-Factor-Binding

## External IDs

- `Dbxref:ASAP:ABE-0004504,ECOCYC:G6673,GeneID:945909`
- `gbkey:Gene`
- `gene_biotype:protein_coding`

## Notes

NC_000913.3:1406563-1407795:-; feature_type=gene
