---
entity_id: "gene.b2592"
entity_type: "gene"
name: "clpB"
source_database: "NCBI RefSeq"
source_id: "gene-b2592"
default_state: "expressed"
allowed_states: "expressed|repressed|knocked_out|mutated|overexpressed"
subcellular_location: "cytosol"
enriched_summary_quality: "informative"
tags:
  - entity/gene
  - source/NCBI_RefSeq
aliases:
  - "b2592"
  - "clpB"
---

# clpB

`gene.b2592`

## Static

- Type: `gene`
- Source: `NCBI RefSeq:gene-b2592`
- Default state: `expressed`
- Allowed states: `expressed|repressed|knocked_out|mutated|overexpressed`
- Location: cytosol

## Enriched Summary

clpB (gene.b2592) is a gene entity. It encodes clpB (protein.P63284). Encoded protein function: FUNCTION: Part of a stress-induced multi-chaperone system, it is involved in the recovery of the cell from heat-induced damage, in cooperation with DnaK, DnaJ and GrpE. Acts before DnaK, in the processing of protein aggregates. Protein binding stimulates the ATPase activity; ATP hydrolysis unfolds the denatured protein aggregates, which probably helps expose new hydrophobic binding sites on the surface of ClpB-bound aggregates, contributing to the solubilization and refolding of denatured protein aggregates by DnaK. {ECO:0000269|PubMed:10982797, ECO:0000269|PubMed:12624113, ECO:0000269|PubMed:14640692}. EcoCyc product frame: MONOMER0-4519. EcoCyc synonyms: htpM. Genomic coordinates: 2731600-2734173. EcoCyc protein note: A shorter form of the ClpB disaggregase generated by way of an internal translation start site; ClpB80 lacks the 148 N-terminal amino acids of ClpB95 but retains the two ATP-binding sites .

## Biological Role

Activated by rpoD (protein.P00579), rpoH (protein.P0AGB3).

## Annotation

NCBI RefSeq gene feature

## Outgoing Edges (1)

- `encodes` --> [[protein.P63284|protein.P63284]] `UniProt|EcoCyc` `database` - EcoCyc gene PRODUCT

## Incoming Edges (2)

- `activates` <-- [[protein.P00579|protein.P00579]] `RegulonDB` `S` - sigma=sigma70; target=clpB; function=+
- `activates` <-- [[protein.P0AGB3|protein.P0AGB3]] `RegulonDB` `S` - sigma=sigma32; target=clpB; function=+

## External IDs

- `Dbxref:ASAP:ABE-0008527,ECOCYC:EG10157,GeneID:947077`
- `gbkey:Gene`
- `gene_biotype:protein_coding`

## Notes

NC_000913.3:2731600-2734173:-; feature_type=gene
