---
entity_id: "gene.b3166"
entity_type: "gene"
name: "truB"
source_database: "NCBI RefSeq"
source_id: "gene-b3166"
default_state: "expressed"
allowed_states: "expressed|repressed|knocked_out|mutated|overexpressed"
subcellular_location: "cytosol"
enriched_summary_quality: "informative"
tags:
  - entity/gene
  - source/NCBI_RefSeq
aliases:
  - "b3166"
  - "truB"
---

# truB

`gene.b3166`

## Static

- Type: `gene`
- Source: `NCBI RefSeq:gene-b3166`
- Default state: `expressed`
- Allowed states: `expressed|repressed|knocked_out|mutated|overexpressed`
- Location: cytosol

## Enriched Summary

truB (gene.b3166) is a gene entity. It encodes truB (protein.P60340). Encoded protein function: FUNCTION: Responsible for synthesis of pseudouridine from uracil-55 in the psi GC loop of transfer RNAs. {ECO:0000255|HAMAP-Rule:MF_01080, ECO:0000269|PubMed:11142385, ECO:0000269|PubMed:7489483}. EcoCyc product frame: EG11177-MONOMER. EcoCyc synonyms: yhbA. Genomic coordinates: 3311833-3312777. EcoCyc protein note: TruB is a pseudouridine synthase that catalyzes the pseudouridylation of U55 in tRNA . The base modification generated by TruB activity contributes to the wild-type thermal stability of tRNA . In addition to its catalytic activity, TruB also acts as a tRNA chaperone ; early mutagenesis results had already suggested such a role . tRNAs carry multiple modifications, often in nearby nucleotide residues. The preferred substrate for the TruB methyltransferase and tRNA binding activities is unmodified tRNA . Crystal structures of TruB have been solved . TruB recognizes the folded T-loop structure of tRNAs and undergoes significant conformational changes upon tRNA binding . Recognition of the tRNA substrate requires the 53:61 base pair of the T-loop stem as well as several conserved nucleotides within the loop . TruB binds both folded and misfolded tRNAs . The substrate specificity of TruB has been described...

## Biological Role

Repressed by argR (protein.P0A6D0), crp (protein.P0ACJ8). Activated by rpoD (protein.P00579).

## Annotation

NCBI RefSeq gene feature

## Outgoing Edges (1)

- `encodes` --> [[protein.P60340|protein.P60340]] `UniProt|EcoCyc` `database` - EcoCyc gene PRODUCT

## Incoming Edges (3)

- `activates` <-- [[protein.P00579|protein.P00579]] `RegulonDB` `S` - sigma=sigma70; target=truB; function=+
- `represses` <-- [[protein.P0A6D0|protein.P0A6D0]] `RegulonDB` `S` - regulator=ArgR; target=truB; function=-
- `represses` <-- [[protein.P0ACJ8|protein.P0ACJ8]] `RegulonDB` `C` - regulator=CRP; target=truB; function=-

## External IDs

- `Dbxref:ASAP:ABE-0010404,ECOCYC:EG11177,GeneID:947687`
- `gbkey:Gene`
- `gene_biotype:protein_coding`

## Notes

NC_000913.3:3311833-3312777:-; feature_type=gene
