---
entity_id: "gene.b0299"
entity_type: "gene"
name: "insF1"
source_database: "NCBI RefSeq"
source_id: "gene-b0299"
default_state: "expressed"
allowed_states: "expressed|repressed|knocked_out|mutated|overexpressed"
subcellular_location: "cytosol"
enriched_summary_quality: "informative"
tags:
  - entity/gene
  - source/NCBI_RefSeq
aliases:
  - "b0299"
  - "insF1"
---

# insF1

`gene.b0299`

## Static

- Type: `gene`
- Source: `NCBI RefSeq:gene-b0299`
- Default state: `expressed`
- Allowed states: `expressed|repressed|knocked_out|mutated|overexpressed`
- Location: cytosol

## Enriched Summary

insF1 (gene.b0299) is a gene entity. It encodes insF1 (protein.P0CF79). Encoded protein function: FUNCTION: Involved in the transposition of the insertion sequence IS3. EcoCyc product frame: G7126-MONOMER. EcoCyc synonyms: tra5-5. Genomic coordinates: 315587-316453. EcoCyc protein note: InsF is one of three proteins coded for by the IS3 insertion element. It is required for transposition of IS3. InsE and InsF are required for transposition by the InsEF transposase . As in many insertion sequences, IS3 codes for three products, one of which is generated by a -1 frameshift that allows readthrough on the first stop codon, resulting in a superproduct that includes most of the first gene in the element. This frameshift occurs in an AAAAG motif in the latter end of the insE gene and yields the IS3 transposase . The IS3 frameshift motif has been used in experiments studying the basis of regulatory translational frameshifts . The insertion of an IS3 element upstream from a gene can lead to enhanced transcription of that gene due to a "Pribnow box" (CAATTT) and a -35 region (TTGGTC) toward the end of insF, which effectively make IS3 a mobile promoter . IS3 elements have been found in 4-6 copies across many E. coli genomes . Locations of IS3 elements in the genome correlate with Hft origin points as well as crossover points for F' factor excision .

## Annotation

NCBI RefSeq gene feature

## Outgoing Edges (1)

- `encodes` --> [[protein.P0CF79|protein.P0CF79]] `UniProt|EcoCyc` `database` - EcoCyc gene PRODUCT

## Incoming Edges (0)

_None._

## External IDs

- `Dbxref:ASAP:ABE-0001030,ECOCYC:G6169,GeneID:944948`
- `gbkey:Gene`
- `gene_biotype:protein_coding`

## Notes

NC_000913.3:315587-316453:+; feature_type=gene
