---
entity_id: "gene.b1646"
entity_type: "gene"
name: "sodC"
source_database: "NCBI RefSeq"
source_id: "gene-b1646"
default_state: "expressed"
allowed_states: "expressed|repressed|knocked_out|mutated|overexpressed"
subcellular_location: "cytosol"
enriched_summary_quality: "informative"
tags:
  - entity/gene
  - source/NCBI_RefSeq
aliases:
  - "b1646"
  - "sodC"
---

# sodC

`gene.b1646`

## Static

- Type: `gene`
- Source: `NCBI RefSeq:gene-b1646`
- Default state: `expressed`
- Allowed states: `expressed|repressed|knocked_out|mutated|overexpressed`
- Location: cytosol

## Enriched Summary

sodC (gene.b1646) is a gene entity. It encodes sodC (protein.P0AGD1). Encoded protein function: FUNCTION: Destroys radicals which are normally produced within the cells and which are toxic to biological systems. EcoCyc product frame: G6886-MONOMER. Genomic coordinates: 1724134-1724655. EcoCyc protein note: SodC, or CuZnSOD, is one of three superoxide dismutases in E. coli that convert superoxide radicals to hydrogen peroxide and water. The three enzymes differ in their metal cofactor requirement. SodC is the only periplasmic enzyme . Periplasmic superoxide may be generated by autooxidation of dihydromenaquinone in the cytoplasmic membrane . SodC is inactivated by cyanide and diethyldithiocarbamate, suggesting that it contains both copper and zinc . Both metal ions can be identified in the crystal structure . Addition of either copper or zinc increases the thermal stability of the purified enzyme . SodC is monomeric even at high protein concentration and in a number of buffers . Charged residues in portions of the protein that are typically hydrophobic dimer interfaces may explain this . A crystal structure of SodC has been solved at 2 Å resolution . Unlike the bovine enzyme, SodC from E. coli is quite resistant to inactivation by hydrogen peroxide. SodC may protect E. coli from killing by macrophages...

## Biological Role

Activated by yeiE (protein.P0ACR4), rpoS (protein.P13445).

## Enriched Pathways

- `eco04146` Peroxisome (KEGG)

## Annotation

NCBI RefSeq gene feature

## Outgoing Edges (1)

- `encodes` --> [[protein.P0AGD1|protein.P0AGD1]] `UniProt|EcoCyc` `database` - EcoCyc gene PRODUCT

## Incoming Edges (2)

- `activates` <-- [[protein.P0ACR4|protein.P0ACR4]] `EcoCyc` `database` - EcoCyc regulation TYPES=Transcription-Factor-Binding
- `activates` <-- [[protein.P13445|protein.P13445]] `RegulonDB` `S` - sigma=sigma38; target=sodC; function=+

## External IDs

- `Dbxref:ASAP:ABE-0005505,ECOCYC:G6886,GeneID:945343`
- `gbkey:Gene`
- `gene_biotype:protein_coding`

## Notes

NC_000913.3:1724134-1724655:-; feature_type=gene
