---
entity_id: "molecule.ecocyc.Ketoximes"
entity_type: "small_molecule"
name: "a ketoxime"
source_database: "EcoCyc"
source_id: "Ketoximes"
default_state: "low"
allowed_states: "absent|low|medium|high"
subcellular_location: ""
enriched_summary_quality: "informative"
tags:
  - entity/small_molecule
  - source/EcoCyc
aliases:
---

# a ketoxime

`molecule.ecocyc.Ketoximes`

## Static

- Type: `small_molecule`
- Source: `EcoCyc:Ketoximes`
- Default state: `low`
- Allowed states: `absent|low|medium|high`

## Enriched Summary

Oximes "An oxime" is a class of chemical compounds with the general formula (R1)(R2)HC=NOH. Ketoximes A ketoxime is an oxime where both R1 and R2 are organic groups other than a hydrogen, and is usually generated by the reaction of HYDROXYLAMINE and LONG-CHAIN-KETONE ketones. The term oxime is derived from a condensation of the words oxygen and Imides imide. Oximes "An oxime" is a class of chemical compounds with the general formula (R1)(R2)HC=NOH. Ketoximes A ketoxime is an oxime where both R1 and R2 are organic groups other than a hydrogen, and is usually generated by the reaction of HYDROXYLAMINE and LONG-CHAIN-KETONE ketones. The term oxime is derived from a condensation of the words oxygen and Imides imide.

## Annotation

Oximes "An oxime" is a class of chemical compounds with the general formula (R1)(R2)HC=NOH. Ketoximes A ketoxime is an oxime where both R1 and R2 are organic groups other than a hydrogen, and is usually generated by the reaction of HYDROXYLAMINE and LONG-CHAIN-KETONE ketones. The term oxime is derived from a condensation of the words oxygen and Imides imide.

## Outgoing Edges (0)

_None._

## Incoming Edges (0)

_None._

## External IDs

- `EcoCyc:Ketoximes`
