---
entity_id: "molecule.ecocyc.Icosanoids"
entity_type: "small_molecule"
name: "an icosanoid"
source_database: "EcoCyc"
source_id: "Icosanoids"
default_state: "low"
allowed_states: "absent|low|medium|high"
subcellular_location: ""
enriched_summary_quality: "informative"
tags:
  - entity/small_molecule
  - source/EcoCyc
aliases:
  - "an eicosanoid"
---

# an icosanoid

`molecule.ecocyc.Icosanoids`

## Static

- Type: `small_molecule`
- Source: `EcoCyc:Icosanoids`
- Default state: `low`
- Allowed states: `absent|low|medium|high`

## Enriched Summary

Icosanoids (often spelled eicosanoids) are signaling molecules generated by oxidation of 20-carbon fatty acids. Icosanoids participate in many cellular processes including promoting or inhibiting inflammation; responding to allergy, fever and other immune system challenges; regulating normal childbirth; contributing to the perception of pain; regulating cell growth; controlling blood pressure; and modulating the regional flow of blood to tissues. There are multiple subfamilies of icosanoids, the main of which are the Prostaglandins prostaglandins, Thromboxanes thromboxanes, Leukotrienes leukotrienes, Lipoxins lipoxins, Resolvins resolvins, and Eoxins eoxins. Each family can have up to 4 series of compounds, which are derived from the ω-3 fatty acid 5Z8Z11Z14Z17Z-EICOSAPENTAENOATE), the ω-6 fatty acids ARACHIDONIC_ACID [(5Z,8Z,11Z,14Z)-icosatetraenoate] and CPD-8120 [(8Z,11Z,14Z)-icosatrienoate], and the ω-9 fatty acid CPD-24529, respectively. Icosanoids (often spelled eicosanoids) are signaling molecules generated by oxidation of 20-carbon fatty acids...

## Annotation

Icosanoids (often spelled eicosanoids) are signaling molecules generated by oxidation of 20-carbon fatty acids. Icosanoids participate in many cellular processes including promoting or inhibiting inflammation; responding to allergy, fever and other immune system challenges; regulating normal childbirth; contributing to the perception of pain; regulating cell growth; controlling blood pressure; and modulating the regional flow of blood to tissues. There are multiple subfamilies of icosanoids, the main of which are the Prostaglandins prostaglandins, Thromboxanes thromboxanes, Leukotrienes leukotrienes, Lipoxins lipoxins, Resolvins resolvins, and Eoxins eoxins. Each family can have up to 4 series of compounds, which are derived from the ω-3 fatty acid 5Z8Z11Z14Z17Z-EICOSAPENTAENOATE), the ω-6 fatty acids ARACHIDONIC_ACID [(5Z,8Z,11Z,14Z)-icosatetraenoate] and CPD-8120 [(8Z,11Z,14Z)-icosatrienoate], and the ω-9 fatty acid CPD-24529, respectively.

## Outgoing Edges (0)

_None._

## Incoming Edges (0)

_None._

## External IDs

- `EcoCyc:Icosanoids`
- `CHEBI:23899`
