---
entity_id: "molecule.ecocyc.Oximes"
entity_type: "small_molecule"
name: "an oxime"
source_database: "EcoCyc"
source_id: "Oximes"
default_state: "low"
allowed_states: "absent|low|medium|high"
subcellular_location: ""
enriched_summary_quality: "informative"
tags:
  - entity/small_molecule
  - source/EcoCyc
aliases:
---

# an oxime

`molecule.ecocyc.Oximes`

## Static

- Type: `small_molecule`
- Source: `EcoCyc:Oximes`
- Default state: `low`
- Allowed states: `absent|low|medium|high`

## Enriched Summary

An oxime is one in a class of chemical compounds with the general formula (R1)(R2)C=NOH, where R1 is an organic side chain and R2 is either hydrogen, forming Aldoxime, or another organic group, forming Ketoximes. Oximes are usually generated by the reaction of HYDROXYLAMINE and Aldehydes aldehydes or LONG-CHAIN-KETONE ketones. The term oxime is derived from a condensation of the words oxygen and Imides imide. An oxime is one in a class of chemical compounds with the general formula (R1)(R2)C=NOH, where R1 is an organic side chain and R2 is either hydrogen, forming Aldoxime, or another organic group, forming Ketoximes. Oximes are usually generated by the reaction of HYDROXYLAMINE and Aldehydes aldehydes or LONG-CHAIN-KETONE ketones. The term oxime is derived from a condensation of the words oxygen and Imides imide.

## Annotation

An oxime is one in a class of chemical compounds with the general formula (R1)(R2)C=NOH, where R1 is an organic side chain and R2 is either hydrogen, forming Aldoxime, or another organic group, forming Ketoximes. Oximes are usually generated by the reaction of HYDROXYLAMINE and Aldehydes aldehydes or LONG-CHAIN-KETONE ketones. The term oxime is derived from a condensation of the words oxygen and Imides imide.

## Outgoing Edges (0)

_None._

## Incoming Edges (0)

_None._

## External IDs

- `EcoCyc:Oximes`
- `CHEBI:25750`
