---
entity_id: "protein.P76194"
entity_type: "protein"
name: "sufE"
source_database: "UniProt"
source_id: "P76194"
default_state: "active"
allowed_states: "active|inhibited|degraded|sequestered"
subcellular_location: "SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Cytoplasm {ECO:0000250}."
enriched_summary_quality: "informative"
tags:
  - entity/protein
  - source/UniProt
aliases:
  - "sufE ynhA b1679 JW1669"
---

# sufE

`protein.P76194`

## Static

- Type: `protein`
- Source: `UniProt:P76194`
- Default state: `active`
- Allowed states: `active|inhibited|degraded|sequestered`
- Location: SUBCELLULAR LOCATION: Cytoplasm {ECO:0000250}.

## Enriched Summary

FUNCTION: Participates in cysteine desulfuration mediated by SufS. Cysteine desulfuration mobilizes sulfur from L-cysteine to yield L-alanine and constitutes an essential step in sulfur metabolism for biosynthesis of a variety of sulfur-containing biomolecules. Functions as a sulfur acceptor for SufS, by mediating the direct transfer of the sulfur atom from the S-sulfanylcysteine of SufS, an intermediate product of cysteine desulfuration process. Together with the SufBCD complex, it thereby enhances up to 50-fold, the cysteine desulfurase activity of SufS. Component of the suf operon, which is activated and required under specific conditions such as oxidative stress and iron limitation. Does not affect the selenocysteine lyase activity of SufS. {ECO:0000269|PubMed:12876288, ECO:0000269|PubMed:12941942, ECO:0000269|PubMed:14644425}. SufE is part of the Suf iron-sulfur cluster assembly system. SufE acts as a sulfur acceptor for the cysteine persulfide generated by the CPLX0-246 SufS cysteine desulfurase and transfers the sulfur atoms to the Cys254 residue of G6909-MONOMER SufB . The Isc system is the "housekeeping" pathway for iron-sulfur cluster assembly in the cell; the Suf system comprises a secondary pathway of iron-sulfur cluster assembly that is required under oxidative stress or iron starvation conditions...

## Biological Role

Catalyzes RXN0-7443 (reaction.ecocyc.RXN0-7443). Component of SufS-SufE complex (complex.ecocyc.CPLX0-12491).

## Annotation

FUNCTION: Participates in cysteine desulfuration mediated by SufS. Cysteine desulfuration mobilizes sulfur from L-cysteine to yield L-alanine and constitutes an essential step in sulfur metabolism for biosynthesis of a variety of sulfur-containing biomolecules. Functions as a sulfur acceptor for SufS, by mediating the direct transfer of the sulfur atom from the S-sulfanylcysteine of SufS, an intermediate product of cysteine desulfuration process. Together with the SufBCD complex, it thereby enhances up to 50-fold, the cysteine desulfurase activity of SufS. Component of the suf operon, which is activated and required under specific conditions such as oxidative stress and iron limitation. Does not affect the selenocysteine lyase activity of SufS. {ECO:0000269|PubMed:12876288, ECO:0000269|PubMed:12941942, ECO:0000269|PubMed:14644425}.

## Outgoing Edges (2)

- `catalyzes` --> [[reaction.ecocyc.RXN0-7443|reaction.ecocyc.RXN0-7443]] `EcoCyc` `database` - EcoCyc enzymatic reaction
- `is_component_of` --> [[complex.ecocyc.CPLX0-12491|complex.ecocyc.CPLX0-12491]] `EcoCyc` `database` - EcoCyc component coefficient=2 | EcoCyc protcplxs.col coefficient=2

## Incoming Edges (1)

- `encodes` <-- [[gene.b1679|gene.b1679]] `UniProt|EcoCyc` `database` - EcoCyc gene PRODUCT

## External IDs

- `UniProt:P76194`
- `KEGG:ecj:JW1669;eco:b1679;ecoc:C3026_09620;`
- `GeneID:946173;`
- `GO:GO:0006790; GO:0006979; GO:0008047; GO:0016226; GO:0031163; GO:0097163; GO:1990228`

## Notes

Cysteine desulfuration protein SufE
